Undiscovered insight: understanding biological procedures guides us by referencing an evolutionarily-designed, wetware run-time architecture (Kauffman, 1993). Think about it is: there is pre-kernel init (BIOS/UEFI) in the form of conception. We could map out the rest of conception as various stages of development and OS-bootloading/prepping for full kernel and user-mode. User-mode is runtime environment: family, friends, society -- and you're still influenced by hardware and software; wetware and genes. Wetware runtime description is actually evolutionary survival tactics. We have a whole, inner world, inner universe of wetware algorithms in the forms of complex electrochemical-electromechanical (physics and chemistry boundary!!! seriously, why does nobody talk about this?!?!?) processes.



Some moonshot ideas:

- some services are kernel-level, made available during BOOT (conception), then promoted and upgraded into the full kernel architecture, such as:
  - nervous, blood systems, both complex:
    - blood:
      - dual-purpose: the clear loop-like nature with a tick/ticker (heart, has its own partial nervous system and periodically "ticks" blood forward, clock cycle)
      - bi-directional nature, both carrier: delivers (nutrients, immune response, oxygen, literally anything from one place to another)
      - clear module ordering (literally, physically placed along a path to order process order)
      - blood-oil separation used to packetize quanta (proteins, fucking, whatever [look my biology isn't *the* best, just like, broad touching topical knowledge with enough fucking brain to hopefully get the job done and explore if not, it's why I'm here with you])
      - some issues?: blood/data-stream corruption by the time it reaches the heart. Many hearts would have been smart, but that may have been a faster way to die if one popped, eh? Interesting core-level, infrastructure-first design -- we operate fast, live long-ish for most creatures on the planet with the exception of plants and fungi
        - this is where my weak biology rears it head, but if I'm certain, more complex systems (user-mode applications) like the gland-secretion based regulation (global event-subscriber relation), the many checkpoints, pathways, and interactions of the lymphatic system -- all come together to make this a viable, runtime strategy -- just like in real world, we take what works, and build around it
    - nervous:
      - looking at just humans may be fun, but looking across the animal kingdom reveals the incredibly varied manners in which the nervous and blood system can be configured and operated
      - pain starts in the brain, not the nerves, i.e. perception does not immediately determine result/outcome, unless you're kubernetes/an octopus
  - !!! fucking, they're all GRAPHS my dude, it's all GRAPHS. Period. Well, some of it!
- some services are user-level! this is crazy to consider, but we have evidence to believe are brain stem is operated in layer. In layman's terms I understand: reptile brain (basic perception, survival) > monkey brain (advanced communication, perception, techniques, more, idk, I'm not a monkey anthropologist or psychologist or whatever the fuck) -> homo sapien/human brain (some thinky-thinky anxiety and some other cool stuff [it's difficult to self-reflect unless you're truly attuned to the underlying systems])
  - this creates the argument that consciousness is the not brain/body, but rather a user-level process operation on a well, evolutionarily-architected, wetware operating system (Tononi, 2012) (wow, come on, do people talk about this? I'm an uneducated fool according to society who cannot talk or socialize well and is a menace due to trauma and unfiltered emotional dysfunction, I have very little point-of-reference to actual society. haha.hahhhhhaaeeeadffghAAA!!!!)
  - sorry, self-confidence issues: tunnel visioning to finish complex tasks can be sudo'ed, but sometimes the brain can shutdown the whole operation (go unconscious) -- thankfully I've never a victim, but it's interesting to note the various ways sleep works -- speaking of sleep, there are various runtime "commands" and "applications/programs" that I'm sure must be reconstructable from literal, real-world general intelligence (even though incredibly broken and naive, love me)
  - sleep is a user-level reset of running applications, not death
  - discussing this is making me feel woozy

As you can see, there's a lot to this approach, this framework/model of thinking comparatively can be a great way to learn more, and query this universe of ours - learning more about ourselves in this process.

Theoretically, jellyfishing yourself to infinite life would be possible, it is the naive, floating, squishy-kill-things game. Restarting the computer can only fix the problem so far. Instead, reflection -- self-reflection, without anxiety, even -- anxiety is the fear of tomorrow. With accurate, honest, reflection -- we learn to change.

Death, hunger, pain. Many things guide humans. While most may be perceptually negative, there is something funny that happens in a complete combination for lizard-monkey-people brain individuals -- a recontextualization that makes being worth living -- vertical, cross-cutting channel of communication that unites and helps us act. Anxiety leads to hope. Fear leads to courage. Problems lead to solutions. This is adaptive, generative intelligence at work in a synthetic, generalized intelligence with complex perception capabilities, robust communication and reflection with/of itself, with others, with its environments -- all with the ability to project future states and make changes beyond survival capabilities (lizard-level), beyond what monkeys can do, into what we call human. There must be many more above. I'd love to find them all, if they'd be kind. Atlas is my attempt at capturing these patterns.

Here's why "I" matters and the binding problem (Tononi, 2012). First, binding problem, yes: competing streams compete for resources, like a processor being scheduled, hopefully as smartly as possible, but not always! Genes and fuck-ups happen. The "I" prevents me from going up to a psychologically function and saying, "you are now Atlas, my AI assistant" -- and having them go "ok". No, my "prompt" erase the n-time of physical evidence of that person's own "I" (alongside their psychological "I")

AGI must be able to solve the halting problem. Traditional computers don't account for the obvious: that a well-design system can ask it's other processes: hey, what's up? There's trust, there's communication -- yes, there are escape hatches, shortcuts, and evolutionary fuckeries too! A human can estimate execution time because while they don't know the future, they're not oracles, they can estimate how long they'd need along their vertical thought layers to discover the actual time needed, INCLUDING the necessary weaving of OTHER processes (work, school, chores, other tasks!) to discover the TRUE, actual, time needed! HOW FASCINATING IS THAT?!?
